
# A Shift From the Norm

## Overview and Origin 

It is often said that if you build a better mouse trap, the world will beat a path to your door. Better ideas drive innovation. One of the most efficient ways to scale innovative ideas is through technology. Today, there are thousands of companies that are using fintech to their advantage. One company that is disrupting a longstanding industry is SoFi.  
	The company was founded by Mike Cagney, James Finnigan, Ian Brady, and Dan Macklin; all of which met at Stanford University while in business school. Their vision was to help students obtain more affordable student loan options. They had used alumni to begin a loan program. In the original pilot, 30 alumni invested an average of $20,000 to 100 students. Since then, the company had experienced drastic shifts and changes. In 2012, SoFi had become the first company to refinance federal and private student loans. Overtime, the company shifted away from solely student loan refinancing and began utilizing financial technology to launch their mortgage platform. In 2015, the company had received $1 billion in Series E Funding led by SoftBank, bringing the total equity investment in SoFi to 1.42 billion. Additionally, they had been the first U.S.-based Fintech company to receive a $1 billion funding round (SoFi). In 2019, the company had launched SoFi Money and SoFi Invest. In January 2020, SoFi had achieved roughly 1 million members. 

## Business Activities 
Consumers typically place a high price tag on convenience. We like to conveniently access all of our files, text messages, and emails. However, the idea of centralization has in large part been neglected in our financial world. Typically, home mortgages, student loans, investment accounts, and savings accounts are all used on separate platforms. SoFi allows their users to manage all functions of money and lending on one, convenient platform. Since their inception, SoFi’s intended customers have been recent college graduates, more specifically, Millennial’s or Gen Z. They intend to tap into a $1.2 trillion student loan market (Forbes). In addition, they have the ability to tap into an even larger banking and financial services industry. Unlike traditional banks like JP Morgan, or PNC, SoFi allows their users to track and manage all financial obligations and investments on one app. Their closest competitor would be Square’s Cash App; however, Cash App does not allow for as many features as SoFi does. Traditional banks have been slower to implement technological solutions that compare to SoFi. This not only gives SoFi a competitive advantage, but an ability to scale efficiently without brick-and-mortar expenses. The company uses a number of technologies including Python, jQuery, Java, and React. Snowflake is a cloud data service provider that enables firms to analyze, share, and manage data. Companies like Snowflake and Palantir have become increasingly popular in helping firms utilize and abstract their data.  

## Landscape 
SoFi operates within the banking and financial services industry. The U.S. Office of Comptroller of the Currency has granted conditional approval for SoFi to receive a national bank charter. Currently, the company is backed by multiple banks that are FDIC insured to provide their services. Some of the most major trends within the investments and financial services industry is the ability for users to not only invest in stocks and ETF’s, but cryptocurrency as well. In recent years, Bitcoin has become a widely accepted store of value attracting institutional investments from Square, MicroStrategy, and Tesla. I believe the concept of purchasing crypto in investment accounts will not only steadily increase but eventually become an industry standard. Other major companies within the investment services domain include Robinhood, Cash App, E-Trade, and TD Ameritrade. Within the home / student loan refinancing domain, major players include Rocket Mortgage, PNC, and JP Morgan. 

## Results 
Although SoFi is a relatively young company, they have had a large impact on the financial industry. Other companies such as WeBull are beginning to enter similar domains. Money for the most part is beginning to become more digitalized. One of the core metrics of performance in this domain is user involvement and members. In January 2020, SoFi celebrated surpassing their 1-million-member mark. In an interview with CEO Anthony Noto (in 2020), he stated, “our total users have nearly doubled since January. Our daily trading volumes up 300%.” In other words, the company has exhibited that they can scale efficiently. In contrast, Square’s Cash App has roughly 24 million users. However, if SoFi continues to scale efficiently, they can catch up to their larger competitors. SoFi is planning to become public through a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) under ticker symbol IPOE. The firm has had unanimous approval from the board of directors to complete the SPAC deal and they plan on closing acquisition within the first quarter of 2021. 

## Reccomendations 
Although SoFi offers a number of services, I believe an important service they should include is the ability to send money from user to user much like how Venmo and Cash App is structured. I believe this would help them scale more efficiently. Today, less people are holding money. The reason why apps like Cash App and Venmo were able to scale is because you must have those apps to send money to other users. Network effects can help grow the business and divert customers to some of their other services. I also believe the company should have engage in a strategic partnership with a large traditional bank. Although this is unlikely, a strategic partnership would help users put cash directly into their SoFi account. In addition, the company can help perform all of the functions of a brick-and-mortar bank without any of the overhead expenses. Blockchain technology has been gaining momentum within the last several years. I believe SoFi should research ways to implement this technology to transfer money from user to user to help ensure such transactions are secure. Overall, SoFi is an excellent example of a financial technology company that is changing the financial industry, they had done this not by inventing anything new, but by making overdue changes to an established industry. In other words, they had not invented the mousetrap, but built a better trap. 

## Sources 
Forbes (https://www.forbes.com/sites/petercohan/2021/01/08/3-reasons-to-buy-sofi-stock-after-its-spac-ipo/?sh=605c93287593)

Stackshare 
(https://stackshare.io/sofi/sofi)

SoFi 
(https://www.sofi.com/press/leading-marketplace-lender-sofi-secures-1-billion-in-series-e-funding-led-by-softbank/)

